advanced_vtk.rst, before:

Export to VTK and 3D visualization
-------------------------------------

The goal of this tutorial is to learn how to export some diagnostics to the
`VTK <https://vtk.org>`_ format and how to visualize them in 3D. 
In this tutorial we will use the open-source
application `Paraview <https://www.paraview.org>`_  to open the VTK files and 3D
visualization, although this is not the only possible choice. 

This tutorial is meant as a 
first introduction to the 3D visualization of ``Smilei`` results. 
For the sake of clarity, only a few available representation options 
will be explored, with no pretense of completeness in the field of 
3D visualization or in the use of Paraview or similar software.

In particular this tutorial will explain how to

  * export ``Fields`` results to VTK
  * export the macro-particles' coordinates in the ``TrackParticles`` results to VTK
  * visualize a Volume Rendering of ``Fields`` with ``Paraview``
  * visualize the tracked macro-particles as points with ``Paraview``

The simulation used for this tutorial is relatively heavy so make sure to submit 
the job on 40 cores at least to run in a few minutes. This tutorial 
needs an installation of the ``vtk`` Python library to export the data 
with ``happi``.

**Disclaimer** This tutorial is not physically relevant. Proper simulation of this 
kind must be done with better resolution in all directions, just to start. 
This would give more accurate results, but it would make the simulation 
even more demanding.

**Warning** To avoid wasting computing resources it is highly recommended to start 
small when learning how to visualize results in 3D. Apart from the simulation
generating the accurate 3D data, the export and visualization of large amounts of 
data requires resources and computing time. For these reasons, if you are learning 
how to visualize VTK files we recommend to start with relatively small benchmarks 
like the one in this tutorial in order to learn the export/visualization tricks 
and to familiarize with the data you may need for your future cases of interest.
Afterwards, you can improve the quality of your simulation results with better 
resolution, more macro-particles, more frequent output, etc. and apply the same 
export and visualization techniques you will have learned in the process.

**Warning for non-experts** 3D visualizations can be good-looking and often artistic, they 
help giving a qualitative picture of what is happening in your simulation, but
they are not recommended to draw accurate scientific conclusions.
Indeed, 3D pictures/animations often have too many details and graphical artifacts
coming from the rendering of 3D objects, so it's always essential to quantitatively 
study your phenomena of interest with 1D and 2D plot to reduce at minimum the 
unnecessary or misleading information.

----

Physical configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A Laguerre-Gauss laser pulse enters the window, where test electrons are present.
The laser pushes the electrons out of its propagation axis through ponderomotive force.

----

Run your simulation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download  the input namelist `laguerre_gauss.py <laguerre_gauss.py>`_ and open 
it with your favorite editor. Take some time to study it carefully.

Note how we define a ``Laser`` profile corresponding to a Laguerre-Gauss mode 
with azimuthal number :math:`m=1`.
This mode has an intensity profile that looks like a corkscrew in 3D.

After the definition of the ``Laser``, a small block of electrons is defined, 
with few test macro-particles to make the simulation and the postprocessing 
quicker. Since these electrons are test macro-particles, they will not
influence the laser propagation, but they will be moved by its electromagnetic
field.

Run the simulation and study the propagation of the laser intensity::

  import happi; S=happi.Open()
  S.Probe.Probe1("Ex**2+Ey**2+Ez**2").slide()

It would be difficult to visualize the corkscrew shape in 2D, even if we had 
plotted only one component of the electric field. 
It seems one of the occasions where 3D visualization gives a better qualitative 
picture.

**Warning** To visualize the macro-particles a ``TrackParticle`` diagnostic is
defined in the namelist. No filter is used, since the number of tracked 
macro-particles is not enormous. In a more realistic case you should select 
only a subset of the particles to make the visualization understandable and to 
keep the cost of simulation/export/visualization operations manageable.


----

Export the results in VTK format
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


Download  the postprocessing script `export_vtk.py <export_vtk.py>`_ and open it
with your favorite editor. Take some time to study it carefully.

Inside the script, as usual the simulation results are open with ``happi``, 
then the ``Field`` diagnostic and the ``TrackParticle`` diagnostic are opened 
and stored in a variable, e.g::

  E2 = S.Field.Field0("Ex**2+Ey**2+Ez**2")

Afterwards, with the ``toVTK()`` method this diagnostic can be exported::

  E2.toVTK()

If everything works smoothly, a folder called ``Field0_EzEyEx`` should be created
by ``happi`` after executing the script. 
This folder contains the ``Fields`` exported to VTK format, for all the available 
iterations.

Afterwards, for all the available iterations the ``TrackParticles`` are 
exported, creating a folder ``TrackParticles_electron_xyzpxpypzId`` with the 
coordinates of the tracked macro-particles.

**Action** When your simulation ends, run the postprocessing script in the 
simulation directory, e.g. with ``IPython``::

  %run export_vtk.py

**Note** In the command selecting the ``TrackParticles`` you have to choose
the attributes to export with the particles, in this case 
``["x","y","z","px","py","pz","Id"]``. In a simulation with moving window you can
also export a coordinate calles ``moving_x``, relative to the moving 
window position.

**Note** Also other diagnostics, e.g. ``Probes``, can be exported with ``toVTK()``
See the 
`relevant documentation <https://smileipic.github.io/Smilei/post-processing.html#export-2d-or-3d-data-to-vtk>`_
for more details.

**Note** For ``Fields`` in ``AMcylindrical`` geometry, you will need to rirst
reconstruct the selected quantities in the 3D space with the ``build3d`` utility
before exporting to VTK. For its synthax, see the
`Field documentation <https://smileipic.github.io/Smilei/post-processing.html#open-a-field-diagnostic>`_.

----

Visualize the 3D data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Open ``Paraview``. This can be done from your machine if you have the VTK data 
stored there, or from a remote machine with remote desktop screen sharing,
or using Paraview in a server-client mode (in this case you will need the same
version of Paraview on both the client and server machines). For large amounts of
data it is recommendable to work in this server-client mode.

**Warning** from now on, the given instructions contain completely arbitrary 
choices, the colors of representations. Feel free to make different choices 
based on you personal tastes and what you want to highlight in your image/animation. 
The figure at the end of the tutorial represents only the result of the 
mentioned choices.

First, to highlight the laser and particles we can set the background color to 
black. To change the background color, click on the icon with the painter's brush
and color palette symbol and pick a background color.

Volume Rendering of Fields
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Click on the folder icon in the top left part of the menu or in ``File->Open``, 
then find the folder ``Field0_EzEyEx`` in your system where the ``Field`` 
diagnostic has been exported. Select the multiple iterations files, they should
be grouped with the name ``Field0_EzEyEx_..pvti``. In the middle left part of 
the screen, click on ``Apply``. 

In the central part of one of the top menu bars
you should see the word ``Outline``. Click on it and change the representation
mode to ``Volume`` to create a Volume Rendering. For the moment you will see nothing,
because the laser still has to enter the window. Click on the ``Play`` button 
above to see the animation of the laser entering the window. 

You can zoom into the scene scrolling with the mouse or rotate the view 
by left-clicking and moving the cursor. Try to change the colormap with 
the dedicated button (try e.g. a black, white, blue colormap). 
Afterwards, click on the button ``Rescale to Custom Data Range``, selecting 
e.g. the interval ``4-10`` for the laser intensity. 
This way the corkscrew shape should be visible.

Point-like representation of Macro-particles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now let's superpose the tracked macro-particles. As before, click on 
``File->Open``, then search for the folder ``TrackParticles_electron_xyzpxpypzId``
where the macro-particles coordinates have been exported.
Select all the iterations, grouped under the name 
``TrackParticles_electron_xyzpxpypzId_trajectory_..vtp``.
As before, click on ``Apply``. 

Again, in the central part of one of the top menu bars
you should see the word ``Outline``. Click on it and change the representation
mode to ``Point Gaussian``. If you are visualizing one of the last iterations you
should already be able to see the point-like electrons. Now you can play with
the options of this representation in the bottom left part of the screen.
For example, you can color them with a ``Solid Color`` white (choice made for the
figure in this tutorial), or color them according to their longitudinal 
momentum. Selecting the option ``Emissive`` (macro-particles emitting light) from
the ``Search`` bar, you should be able to create an image like this for the 
last iteration:


  .. image:: _static/LaguerreGauss.png
    :width: 40%
    :align: center


Now you can visualize the animation of the laser entering the window and 
pushing away the electrons, start experimenting with the many options of the selected 
representations, or with the colormaps and transfer functions.

Commit message:

add track visualization with slide()

advanced_vtk.rst, after:

Export to VTK and 3D visualization
-------------------------------------

The goal of this tutorial is to learn how to export some diagnostics to the
`VTK <https://vtk.org>`_ format and how to visualize them in 3D. 
In this tutorial we will use the open-source
application `Paraview <https://www.paraview.org>`_  to open the VTK files and 3D
visualization, although this is not the only possible choice. 

This tutorial is meant as a 
first introduction to the 3D visualization of ``Smilei`` results. 
For the sake of clarity, only a few available representation options 
will be explored, with no pretense of completeness in the field of 
3D visualization or in the use of Paraview or similar software.

In particular this tutorial will explain how to

  * export ``Fields`` results to VTK
  * export the macro-particles' coordinates in the ``TrackParticles`` results to VTK
  * visualize a Volume Rendering of ``Fields`` with ``Paraview``
  * visualize the tracked macro-particles as points with ``Paraview``

The simulation used for this tutorial is relatively heavy so make sure to submit 
the job on 40 cores at least to run in a few minutes. This tutorial 
needs an installation of the ``vtk`` Python library to export the data 
with ``happi``.

**Disclaimer** This tutorial is not physically relevant. Proper simulation of this 
kind must be done with better resolution in all directions, just to start. 
This would give more accurate results, but it would make the simulation 
even more demanding.

**Warning** To avoid wasting computing resources it is highly recommended to start 
small when learning how to visualize results in 3D. Apart from the simulation
generating the accurate 3D data, the export and visualization of large amounts of 
data requires resources and computing time. For these reasons, if you are learning 
how to visualize VTK files we recommend to start with relatively small benchmarks 
like the one in this tutorial in order to learn the export/visualization tricks 
and to familiarize with the data you may need for your future cases of interest.
Afterwards, you can improve the quality of your simulation results with better 
resolution, more macro-particles, more frequent output, etc. and apply the same 
export and visualization techniques you will have learned in the process.

**Warning for non-experts** 3D visualizations can be good-looking and often artistic, they 
help giving a qualitative picture of what is happening in your simulation, but
they are not recommended to draw accurate scientific conclusions.
Indeed, 3D pictures/animations often have too many details and graphical artifacts
coming from the rendering of 3D objects, so it's always essential to quantitatively 
study your phenomena of interest with 1D and 2D plot to reduce at minimum the 
unnecessary or misleading information.

----

Physical configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A Laguerre-Gauss laser pulse enters the window, where test electrons are present.
The laser pushes the electrons out of its propagation axis through ponderomotive force.

----

Run your simulation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download  the input namelist `laguerre_gauss.py <laguerre_gauss.py>`_ and open 
it with your favorite editor. Take some time to study it carefully.

Note how we define a ``Laser`` profile corresponding to a Laguerre-Gauss mode 
with azimuthal number :math:`m=1`.
This mode has an intensity profile that looks like a corkscrew in 3D.

After the definition of the ``Laser``, a small block of electrons is defined, 
with few test macro-particles to make the simulation and the postprocessing 
quicker. Since these electrons are test macro-particles, they will not
influence the laser propagation, but they will be moved by its electromagnetic
field.

Run the simulation and study the propagation of the laser intensity::

  import happi; S=happi.Open()
  S.Probe.Probe1("Ex**2+Ey**2+Ez**2").slide()

It would be difficult to visualize the corkscrew shape in 2D, even if we had 
plotted only one component of the electric field. 

To visualize the trajectories of the electrons, we can use::

  species_name="electron"
  chunk_size  = 600000
  track       = S.TrackParticles(species = species_name, chunksize=chunk_size,axes = ["x","y"])
  track.slide(figure=1)

In this plot too it is difficult to see how the particles are moving in 3D.

It seems one of the occasions where 3D visualization gives a better qualitative 
picture.

**Warning** To visualize the macro-particles a ``TrackParticle`` diagnostic is
defined in the namelist. No filter is used, since the number of tracked 
macro-particles is not enormous. In a more realistic case you should select 
only a subset of the particles to make the visualization understandable and to 
keep the cost of simulation/export/visualization operations manageable.


----

Export the results in VTK format
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


Download  the postprocessing script `export_vtk.py <export_vtk.py>`_ and open it
with your favorite editor. Take some time to study it carefully.

Inside the script, as usual the simulation results are open with ``happi``, 
then the ``Field`` diagnostic and the ``TrackParticle`` diagnostic are opened 
and stored in a variable, e.g::

  E2 = S.Field.Field0("Ex**2+Ey**2+Ez**2")

Afterwards, with the ``toVTK()`` method this diagnostic can be exported::

  E2.toVTK()

If everything works smoothly, a folder called ``Field0_EzEyEx`` should be created
by ``happi`` after executing the script. 
This folder contains the ``Fields`` exported to VTK format, for all the available 
iterations.

Afterwards, for all the available iterations the ``TrackParticles`` are 
exported, creating a folder ``TrackParticles_electron_xyzpxpypzId`` with the 
coordinates of the tracked macro-particles.

**Action** When your simulation ends, run the postprocessing script in the 
simulation directory, e.g. with ``IPython``::

  %run export_vtk.py

**Note** In the command selecting the ``TrackParticles`` you have to choose
the attributes to export with the particles, in this case 
``["x","y","z","px","py","pz","Id"]``. In a simulation with moving window you can
also export a coordinate calles ``moving_x``, relative to the moving 
window position.

**Note** Also other diagnostics, e.g. ``Probes``, can be exported with ``toVTK()``
See the 
`relevant documentation <https://smileipic.github.io/Smilei/post-processing.html#export-2d-or-3d-data-to-vtk>`_
for more details.

**Note** For ``Fields`` in ``AMcylindrical`` geometry, you will need to rirst
reconstruct the selected quantities in the 3D space with the ``build3d`` utility
before exporting to VTK. For its synthax, see the
`Field documentation <https://smileipic.github.io/Smilei/post-processing.html#open-a-field-diagnostic>`_.

----

Visualize the 3D data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Open ``Paraview``. This can be done from your machine if you have the VTK data 
stored there, or from a remote machine with remote desktop screen sharing,
or using Paraview in a server-client mode (in this case you will need the same
version of Paraview on both the client and server machines). For large amounts of
data it is recommendable to work in this server-client mode.

**Warning** from now on, the given instructions contain completely arbitrary 
choices, the colors of representations. Feel free to make different choices 
based on you personal tastes and what you want to highlight in your image/animation. 
The figure at the end of the tutorial represents only the result of the 
mentioned choices.

First, to highlight the laser and particles we can set the background color to 
black. To change the background color, click on the icon with the painter's brush
and color palette symbol and pick a background color.

Volume Rendering of Fields
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Click on the folder icon in the top left part of the menu or in ``File->Open``, 
then find the folder ``Field0_EzEyEx`` in your system where the ``Field`` 
diagnostic has been exported. Select the multiple iterations files, they should
be grouped with the name ``Field0_EzEyEx_..pvti``. In the middle left part of 
the screen, click on ``Apply``. 

In the central part of one of the top menu bars
you should see the word ``Outline``. Click on it and change the representation
mode to ``Volume`` to create a Volume Rendering. For the moment you will see nothing,
because the laser still has to enter the window. Click on the ``Play`` button 
above to see the animation of the laser entering the window. 

You can zoom into the scene scrolling with the mouse or rotate the view 
by left-clicking and moving the cursor. Try to change the colormap with 
the dedicated button (try e.g. a black, white, blue colormap). 
Afterwards, click on the button ``Rescale to Custom Data Range``, selecting 
e.g. the interval ``4-10`` for the laser intensity. 
This way the corkscrew shape should be visible.

Point-like representation of Macro-particles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now let's superpose the tracked macro-particles. As before, click on 
``File->Open``, then search for the folder ``TrackParticles_electron_xyzpxpypzId``
where the macro-particles coordinates have been exported.
Select all the iterations, grouped under the name 
``TrackParticles_electron_xyzpxpypzId_trajectory_..vtp``.
As before, click on ``Apply``. 

Again, in the central part of one of the top menu bars
you should see the word ``Outline``. Click on it and change the representation
mode to ``Point Gaussian``. If you are visualizing one of the last iterations you
should already be able to see the point-like electrons. Now you can play with
the options of this representation in the bottom left part of the screen.
For example, you can color them with a ``Solid Color`` white (choice made for the
figure in this tutorial), or color them according to their longitudinal 
momentum. Selecting the option ``Emissive`` (macro-particles emitting light) from
the ``Search`` bar, you should be able to create an image like this for the 
last iteration:


  .. image:: _static/LaguerreGauss.png
    :width: 40%
    :align: center


Now you can visualize the animation of the laser entering the window and 
pushing away the electrons, start experimenting with the many options of the selected 
representations, or with the colormaps and transfer functions.
