advanced_radiation_reaction.rst, before:

Synchrotron-like Radiation reaction processes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The goal of this tutorial is to present how to use the radiative and QED processes in
:program:`Smilei`.
The following points will be addressed:

* How to prepare input files for these physical modules
* How to setup radiation reaction models
* How to use :program:`Smilei` diagnostics
* How to read and understand generated outputs

----

Physical configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A multi-GeV electron beam is made to collide with a counter-propagating plane wave.
This configuration is one of the most efficient to trigger radiative and QED effects.
It maximizes the value of the quantum parameter for a given electron energy and a given
field strength.

The simulation is 2D Cartesian with a simulation size of :math:`30 \lambda \times 4 \lambda`
where :math:`\lambda` is the laser wavelength. The laser is injected from the left side
of the simulation domain while the electron beam is initialized at the extreme right.

In this initial configuration, the laser has a wavelength of :math:`\lambda = 1\ \mu \mathrm{m}`,
an amplitude of :math:`10^{22}\ \mathrm{W/cm}^2` (:math:`a_0 \simeq 100`) and is linearly polarized
in the :math:`y` direction. The temporal profile is Gaussian (order 4).
The full width at half maximum (FWHM) is of 10 laser periods (approximately 33 fs).

The electron beam has an initial energy of 1 GeV and propagates to the left.
The beam density is of :math:`n_b = 10^{-5} n_c`. The electron beam is frozen the
time for the laser to be fully injected and so that the collision occurred at the
middle of the domain. This enables to have a shorter simulation box and therefore
save computational time. The beam is initialized with 32 particles per cell for a
total of 12480 macro-particles.


----

Content of the tutorial
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download `AdvancedTutorial1.tar.gz <AdvancedTutorial1.tar.gz>`_ and extract it.
It contains 2 directories:

* ``Analysis``
* ``Execution``

The directory ``Analysis`` contains `Python` scripts that will be used to analysis
and visualize the simulation outputs.
Each script has been designed to focus on a specific quantity:

* ``show_energy_balance.py``: display the time evolution of the electron normalized kinetic energy and the radiated energy.
* ``show_2d_density.py``: display the 2d colormap of the electron normalized density.
* ``show_2d_average_energy.py``: display the 2d colormap of the electron average normalized energy.
* ``show_2d_average_chi.py``: display the 2d colormap of the electron local quantum parameter.
* ``show_2d_fields.py``: display 2D colormaps  of the electric field :math:`E_y` and the magnetic field :math:`B_z`.
* ``compare_energy_balance_Landau_Lifshitz.py``
* ``compare_energy_balance_radiation_models.py``
* ``compare_2d_density_radiation_models.py``
* ``compare_2d_average_energy_radiation_models.py``
* ``compare_2d_average_chi_radiation_models.py``

The ``Execution`` directory contains the input file:

* ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py``

We will perform simulations step by step for each radiation model.
We will use the Python script available in ``Analysis`` to analyze the
generated outputs.


----

First simulation: the classical model of Landau-Lifshitz
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let us first use the continuous classical model of Landau-Lifshitz.
This radiation reaction model is valid in the so-called classical regime when
the particle quantum parameter ``chi`` is below :math:`10^{-2}`.
The version implemented in :program:`Smilei` is an approximation for high
gamma factor that enables to simplify and remove some terms.

* copy the directory ``Execution`` into a new directory called ``Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz``
  in which we will work:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp -r Execution Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz


* Go into this directory and open the input file ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py``.


We will now setup the radiation reaction parameters.

* Go to the block called ``RadiationReaction``. This block is commented.
  Uncomment it and the parameter called ``chipa_radiation_threshold``:

  .. code-block:: python

    RadiationReaction(
         chipa_radiation_threshold = 1e-3
    #     chipa_disc_min_threshold = 1e-2,
    #     table_path = "/gpfshome/mds/staff/mlobet/smilei/databases/"
    )

  This block is used to setup the general parameters. Only ``chipa_radiation_threshold``
  is useful for the moment. This parameter corresponds to the minimal value of the
  quantum parameter at which the radiation reaction process is applied.
  Below this value, the particle does not undergo radiation loss.
  To specify this parameter is not compulsory since it is defined by default at `1e-3`.

* Now go to the block of the first species called ``electron``.
  Only this species will be present in the simulation for the moment.

* Uncomment the parameter ``radiation_model``.
  This parameter corresponds to the radiation model you want to use.
  By default, this parameter is set to ``None`` meaning no radiation loss.
  To use the Landau-Lifshitz radiation model, use:

  .. code-block:: python

    radiation_model = "Landau-Lifshitz"

  The other commented parameters are not useful for the moment.

* You may now run the simulation. We recommend you to run it in parallel
  with at least 4 cores. By default, 16 patches have been specified. If you want
  to run this input file with more than 16 MPI tasks and OpenMP threads,
  you have to increase the number of patches accordingly.


At the end of the run, you can see that several files have been generated including
the particle binning (``ParticleBinning*.h5``), the fields (``Fields*.h5``) and
the scalar (``scalars.txt``) diagnostics.


* We will use the python script ``show_energ_balance.py`` to plot the time evolution
  of the particle normalized kinetic energy. Copy this file from the Analysis directory
  to the current one:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_energy_balance.py .


* Open this file and take the time to read and understand it.
  You can see that the script is decomposed into several sections.
  The section `Smilei general information` will open and scan the result directory
  thanks to ``S = happi.Open(path, verbose=False)``.
  The results are read in the section `Scalar diagnostics`.
  The command ``S.Scalar("Ukin_electron")`` enables to select a scalar quantity object
  (for the electron kinetic energy here). We use the method ``get`` to get the raw data
  contains in the scalar object. We then manually plot the data via `Matplotlib`.
  This method is another approach of using the :program:`Smilei` Python
  library and differs from what you may have seen before.

* Run the script in an *ipython* prompt:

  .. code-block:: python

    %run show_energy_balance.py

  Or you can also run it directly in your terminal by adding the interactive option:

  .. code-block:: bash

    python -i show_energy_balance.py

  You obtain a plot of the time evolution of the electron normalized energy and
  the radiated energy (purple). There is no positron or photons here.

* What do you observe? You can see that during the laser interaction
  (starting from :math:`t = 240 \omega_r^{-1}`), the electron kinetic energy
  is rapidly converted into radiations via the radiative model.

* Estimate the maximal quantum parameter reached during the simulation.
  For this aim, you can use the python script ``Analysis/show_2d_average_chi.py``.
  Copy this script in the current working directory and run it in *ipython*:

  .. code-block:: python

    %run show_2d_average_chi.py

  You obtain a 2D colormap of the beam.
  The color corresponds to the local value of the quantum parameter.
  The terminal gives the maximal value. What do you think about this value regarding the
  model validity?

* Open the python script ``show_2d_average_chi.py``.
  Take the time to read it to understand. In the `parameters` section,
  change the ``timestep`` value and run again the script to see how the quantum
  parameter evolves. Particle binning diagnostics are output every 500 iterations.
  By this way you can see when the beam starts to radiate while entering the laser field.
  The maximal available iteration is 8000.

* Similarly, use the Python script ``show_2d_density.py`` (located in ``Analysis``)
  to plot a 2D colormap of the electron density and ``show_2d_average_energy.py``
  to plot the 2D colormap of the local average kinetic energy.
  Copy these scripts in the current working directory and use `ipython` to run them
  as in the previous item. Open them and change the ``timestep`` parameter.

----

Second simulation: the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will now perform the same simulation with the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model.
This model includes a quantum correction that extends the domain of validity
to higher quantum parameters, around :math:`\chi \sim 10^{-1}`.

* copy the previous working directory ``Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz`` into a new directory
  called ``Radiation_corrected_Landau_Lifshitz`` in which we will now work:

.. code-block:: bash

  cp -r Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz Radiation_corrected_Landau_Lifshitz
  cd Radiation_corrected_Landau_Lifshitz


* Open the input file script ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision``.
  Go to the ``electron`` species block.
  To use the ``corrected Landau-Lifshitz`` radiation model, simply use:

.. code-block:: python

  radiation_model = "corrected-Landau-Lifshitz"

This radiative model requires the same global setup as the ``Landau-Lifshitz`` one.

* You can run the simulation.

* Compare the evolution of the energy balance to the ``Landau-Lifshitz`` model.
  For this aim you can copy the script ``show_energy_balance.py`` in the current
  working directory and run it using ipython:

  .. code-block:: python

    %run show_energy_balance.py

  Compare the generated plot with the one from the ``Landau-Lifshitz`` simulation.

* **Optional exercice:** using ``show_energy_balance.py``, create you own python script
  to plot on the same figure the time evolution of the energy balance for the
  classical Landau-Lifshitz and the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model.

  **Solution:** See the Python script ``Analysis/compare_energy_balance_Landau-Lifshitz.py``.

  .. image:: _extra/compare_energy_balance_Landau_Lifshitz.png

* Question: What do you observe? You can see that the energy drops less rapidly
  with the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model.
  This means that we are out of the validity scope of the classical Landau-Lifshitz
  model with the current laser and electron parameters.

* **Optional exercice:** as for the previous model, use the Python scripts to
  plot 2D colormap of the density (``show_2d_density.py``), the normalized kinetic
  energy (``show_2d_average_energy.py``) and the quantum parameter (``show_2d_average_chi.py``).

----

Third simulation: the stochastic model of Niel *et al.*
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The model of Niel *et al.* is the first stochastic model available in :program:`Smilei`.
It is an extension of the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model with
an additional stochastic operator derived from a Fokker-Planck approach.

* Copy the previous working directory ``Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz`` into a new directory
  called ``Radiation_Niel`` in which we will now work:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp -r Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz Radiation_Niel
    cd Radiation_Niel


* Open the input file ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py`` and
  go to the ``electron`` species block. Modify the ``radiation_model`` by

  .. code-block:: python

    radiation_model = "Niel"


* The Niel radiation model uses tabulated values. External Tables are available
  in the ``SMILEI/databases`` directory in the sources. In order to specify
  in the input file  where these tables are located, we have to modify the
  block ``RadiationReaction`` previously uncommented.
  Uncomment the table_path parameter as follow:

  .. code-block:: python

    RadiationReaction(
         chipa_radiation_threshold = 1e-3
    #     chipa_disc_min_threshold = 1e-2,
         table_path = "<path_to_smilei>/databases/"
    )

  And update the path to :program:`Smilei` according to your installation configuration.

* You can run the simulation

  By looking at the standart output (the *log*) that contains the simulation output,
  you can check that the external tables have been well read.

* Use the script ``show_energ_balance.py`` to plot the evolution of the energy
  balance for this simulation. Compare the results to the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model.

* **Optional exercice:** as for the previous model, use the Python scripts to
  plot 2D colormap of the density (``show_2d_density.py``), the normalized kinetic
  energy (``show_2d_average_energy.py``) and the quantum parameter (``show_2d_average_chi.py``).

----

Fourth simulation: the Monte-Carlo model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Monte-Carlo model is the second stochastic one of the list of implemented models.
You can have more information about the model and its implementation on the page
``Synchrotron-like radiation reaction`` fn the :program:`Smilei` website.

* copy the previous working directory ``Radiation_Niel`` into a new directory
  called ``Radiation_Monte-Carlo`` in which we will now work:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp -r Radiation_Niel Radiation_Monte_Carlo
    cd Radiation_Monte_Carlo


* Open the input file ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py`` and
  go to the ``electron`` species block. Modify the ``radiation_model`` by

  .. code-block:: python

    radiation_model = "Monte-Carlo"


* Like the Niel radiation model, the Monte-Carlo algorithm uses tabulated values.
  The same path needs to be specified in the block ``RadiationReaction``.
  In addition, set the parameter ``chipa_disc_min_threshold`` to ``1e-2``
  (uncomment the corresponding line).
  The Monte-Carlo model is built to work with the continuous corrected
  Landau-Lifshitz approach when the particle quantum parameter is too low.
  This parameter corresponds to this threshold.
  Above this value, a particle undergoes radiation reaction via the Monte-Carlo engine.
  Below the continuous approach is used.

  .. code-block:: python

    RadiationReaction(
         chipa_radiation_threshold = 1e-3
         chipa_disc_min_threshold = 1e-3,
         table_path = "<path_to_smilei>/databases/"
    )

  In fact, the default value of ``chipa_disc_min_threshold`` is ``1e-2``.
  Therefore, it has to be specified only to change the default value.
  The Monte-Carlo radiation reaction is now fully set.

* You can now run the simulation

* Use the script ``show_energ_balance.py`` to plot the evolution of the energy
  balance for this simulation.

* **Optional exercice:** as for the previous model, use the Python scripts to
  plot 2D colormap of the density (``show_2d_density.py``), the normalized kinetic
  energy (``show_2d_average_energy.py``) and the quantum parameter (``show_2d_average_chi.py``).

----

Comparison of the radiation reaction models
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Optional exercice:** Using ``show_energy_balance.py``, create you own python script
  to plot on the same figure the time evolution of the energy balance
  for the corrected Landau-Lifshitz, the Niel and the Monte-Carlo radiative models.
  The solution is given in the next point.

* **Solution:** The solution is the Python script
  ``Analysis/compare_energy_balance_radiation_models.py``.
  Go to the directory ``Analysis`` to run it.
  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/compare_energy_balance_radiation_models.png

* **Optional exercice:** Using the script ``show_2d_density.py``, create a
  new script to compare on the same figure the electron density of the corrected Landau-Lifshitz,
  the Niel and the Monte-Carlo radiative simulation cases.
  Observe the shape of the beam after the laser interaction in each case.
  Do the same thing for the average local kinetic energy and the
  average local quantum parameter using ``show_2d_kinetic_energy.py`` and ``show_2d_average_chi.py``.
  See the next point for the solution.

* **Solutions:** Solutions are the Python script ``Analysis/compare_2d_density_radiation_models.py``,
  ``Analysis/compare_2d_kinetic_energy_radiation_models.py``,
  ``Analysis/compare_2d_average_chi_radiation_models.py``.
  Go to the directory ``Analysis`` to run the solutions.
  The beam density at iteration 6500 at the end of the interaction should look
  like the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/compare_density_radiative_models.png

  With the script to compare the quantum parameter space-distribution,
  you can also have the maximum value of the quantum parameter.

* **Optional exercice:** Activate the track particle option to follow trajectories
  of some particles in the corrected Landau-Lifshitz,
  the Niel and the Monte-Carlo simulation cases and run them again.
  Create a python script to read and plot the particle trajectories.
  Describe the difference due to the stochasticity.

* **Optional exercice**: Play with the laser and electron beam parameters
  (laser amplitude, duration, profile and electron energy) to see how
  the different models behave. Use the previous scripts to compute the maximum
  value of the quantum parameter in each case and see the electron beam properties after
  the laser interaction.

Commit message:

Update radiation and multi-photon hands-on with new radiation parameters names

advanced_radiation_reaction.rst, after:

Synchrotron-like Radiation reaction processes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The goal of this tutorial is to present how to use the radiative and QED processes in
:program:`Smilei`.
The following points will be addressed:

* How to prepare input files for these physical modules
* How to setup radiation reaction models
* How to use :program:`Smilei` diagnostics
* How to read and understand generated outputs

----

Physical configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A multi-GeV electron beam is made to collide with a counter-propagating plane wave.
This configuration is one of the most efficient to trigger radiative and QED effects.
It maximizes the value of the quantum parameter for a given electron energy and a given
field strength.

The simulation is 2D Cartesian with a simulation size of :math:`30 \lambda \times 4 \lambda`
where :math:`\lambda` is the laser wavelength. The laser is injected from the left side
of the simulation domain while the electron beam is initialized at the extreme right.

In this initial configuration, the laser has a wavelength of :math:`\lambda = 1\ \mu \mathrm{m}`,
an amplitude of :math:`10^{22}\ \mathrm{W/cm}^2` (:math:`a_0 \simeq 100`) and is linearly polarized
in the :math:`y` direction. The temporal profile is Gaussian (order 4).
The full width at half maximum (FWHM) is of 10 laser periods (approximately 33 fs).

The electron beam has an initial energy of 1 GeV and propagates to the left.
The beam density is of :math:`n_b = 10^{-5} n_c`. The electron beam is frozen the
time for the laser to be fully injected and so that the collision occurred at the
middle of the domain. This enables to have a shorter simulation box and therefore
save computational time. The beam is initialized with 32 particles per cell for a
total of 12480 macro-particles.


----

Content of the tutorial
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download `AdvancedTutorial1.tar.gz <AdvancedTutorial1.tar.gz>`_ and extract it.
It contains 2 directories:

* ``Analysis``
* ``Execution``

The directory ``Analysis`` contains `Python` scripts that will be used to analysis
and visualize the simulation outputs.
Each script has been designed to focus on a specific quantity:

* ``show_energy_balance.py``: display the time evolution of the electron normalized kinetic energy and the radiated energy.
* ``show_2d_density.py``: display the 2d colormap of the electron normalized density.
* ``show_2d_average_energy.py``: display the 2d colormap of the electron average normalized energy.
* ``show_2d_average_chi.py``: display the 2d colormap of the electron local quantum parameter.
* ``show_2d_fields.py``: display 2D colormaps  of the electric field :math:`E_y` and the magnetic field :math:`B_z`.
* ``compare_energy_balance_Landau_Lifshitz.py``
* ``compare_energy_balance_radiation_models.py``
* ``compare_2d_density_radiation_models.py``
* ``compare_2d_average_energy_radiation_models.py``
* ``compare_2d_average_chi_radiation_models.py``

The ``Execution`` directory contains the input file:

* ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py``

We will perform simulations step by step for each radiation model.
We will use the Python script available in ``Analysis`` to analyze the
generated outputs.


----

First simulation: the classical model of Landau-Lifshitz
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let us first use the continuous classical model of Landau-Lifshitz.
This radiation reaction model is valid in the so-called classical regime when
the particle quantum parameter ``chi`` is below :math:`10^{-2}`.
The version implemented in :program:`Smilei` is an approximation for high
gamma factor that enables to simplify and remove some terms.

* copy the directory ``Execution`` into a new directory called ``Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz``
  in which we will work:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp -r Execution Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz


* Go into this directory and open the input file ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py``.


We will now setup the radiation reaction parameters.

* Go to the block called ``RadiationReaction``. This block is commented.
  Uncomment it and the parameter called ``minimum_chi_continuous``:

  .. code-block:: python

    RadiationReaction(
         minimum_chi_continuous = 1e-3
    #     minimum_chi_discontinuous = 1e-2,
    #     table_path = "/gpfshome/mds/staff/mlobet/smilei/databases/"
    )

  This block is used to setup the general parameters. Only ``minimum_chi_continuous``
  is useful for the moment. This parameter corresponds to the minimal value of the
  quantum parameter at which the radiation reaction process is applied.
  Below this value, the particle does not undergo radiation loss.
  To specify this parameter is not compulsory since it is defined by default at `1e-3`.

* Now go to the block of the first species called ``electron``.
  Only this species will be present in the simulation for the moment.

* Uncomment the parameter ``radiation_model``.
  This parameter corresponds to the radiation model you want to use.
  By default, this parameter is set to ``None`` meaning no radiation loss.
  To use the Landau-Lifshitz radiation model, use:

  .. code-block:: python

    radiation_model = "Landau-Lifshitz"

  The other commented parameters are not useful for the moment.

* You may now run the simulation. We recommend you to run it in parallel
  with at least 4 cores. By default, 16 patches have been specified. If you want
  to run this input file with more than 16 MPI tasks and OpenMP threads,
  you have to increase the number of patches accordingly.


At the end of the run, you can see that several files have been generated including
the particle binning (``ParticleBinning*.h5``), the fields (``Fields*.h5``) and
the scalar (``scalars.txt``) diagnostics.


* We will use the python script ``show_energ_balance.py`` to plot the time evolution
  of the particle normalized kinetic energy. Copy this file from the Analysis directory
  to the current one:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_energy_balance.py .


* Open this file and take the time to read and understand it.
  You can see that the script is decomposed into several sections.
  The section `Smilei general information` will open and scan the result directory
  thanks to ``S = happi.Open(path, verbose=False)``.
  The results are read in the section `Scalar diagnostics`.
  The command ``S.Scalar("Ukin_electron")`` enables to select a scalar quantity object
  (for the electron kinetic energy here). We use the method ``get`` to get the raw data
  contains in the scalar object. We then manually plot the data via `Matplotlib`.
  This method is another approach of using the :program:`Smilei` Python
  library and differs from what you may have seen before.

* Run the script in an *ipython* prompt:

  .. code-block:: python

    %run show_energy_balance.py

  Or you can also run it directly in your terminal by adding the interactive option:

  .. code-block:: bash

    python -i show_energy_balance.py

  You obtain a plot of the time evolution of the electron normalized energy and
  the radiated energy (purple). There is no positron or photons here.

* What do you observe? You can see that during the laser interaction
  (starting from :math:`t = 240 \omega_r^{-1}`), the electron kinetic energy
  is rapidly converted into radiations via the radiative model.

* Estimate the maximal quantum parameter reached during the simulation.
  For this aim, you can use the python script ``Analysis/show_2d_average_chi.py``.
  Copy this script in the current working directory and run it in *ipython*:

  .. code-block:: python

    %run show_2d_average_chi.py

  You obtain a 2D colormap of the beam.
  The color corresponds to the local value of the quantum parameter.
  The terminal gives the maximal value. What do you think about this value regarding the
  model validity?

* Open the python script ``show_2d_average_chi.py``.
  Take the time to read it to understand. In the `parameters` section,
  change the ``timestep`` value and run again the script to see how the quantum
  parameter evolves. Particle binning diagnostics are output every 500 iterations.
  By this way you can see when the beam starts to radiate while entering the laser field.
  The maximal available iteration is 8000.

* Similarly, use the Python script ``show_2d_density.py`` (located in ``Analysis``)
  to plot a 2D colormap of the electron density and ``show_2d_average_energy.py``
  to plot the 2D colormap of the local average kinetic energy.
  Copy these scripts in the current working directory and use `ipython` to run them
  as in the previous item. Open them and change the ``timestep`` parameter.

----

Second simulation: the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will now perform the same simulation with the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model.
This model includes a quantum correction that extends the domain of validity
to higher quantum parameters, around :math:`\chi \sim 10^{-1}`.

* copy the previous working directory ``Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz`` into a new directory
  called ``Radiation_corrected_Landau_Lifshitz`` in which we will now work:

.. code-block:: bash

  cp -r Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz Radiation_corrected_Landau_Lifshitz
  cd Radiation_corrected_Landau_Lifshitz


* Open the input file script ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision``.
  Go to the ``electron`` species block.
  To use the ``corrected Landau-Lifshitz`` radiation model, simply use:

.. code-block:: python

  radiation_model = "corrected-Landau-Lifshitz"

This radiative model requires the same global setup as the ``Landau-Lifshitz`` one.

* You can run the simulation.

* Compare the evolution of the energy balance to the ``Landau-Lifshitz`` model.
  For this aim you can copy the script ``show_energy_balance.py`` in the current
  working directory and run it using ipython:

  .. code-block:: python

    %run show_energy_balance.py

  Compare the generated plot with the one from the ``Landau-Lifshitz`` simulation.

* **Optional exercice:** using ``show_energy_balance.py``, create you own python script
  to plot on the same figure the time evolution of the energy balance for the
  classical Landau-Lifshitz and the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model.

  **Solution:** See the Python script ``Analysis/compare_energy_balance_Landau-Lifshitz.py``.

  .. image:: _extra/compare_energy_balance_Landau_Lifshitz.png

* Question: What do you observe? You can see that the energy drops less rapidly
  with the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model.
  This means that we are out of the validity scope of the classical Landau-Lifshitz
  model with the current laser and electron parameters.

* **Optional exercice:** as for the previous model, use the Python scripts to
  plot 2D colormap of the density (``show_2d_density.py``), the normalized kinetic
  energy (``show_2d_average_energy.py``) and the quantum parameter (``show_2d_average_chi.py``).

----

Third simulation: the stochastic model of Niel *et al.*
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The model of Niel *et al.* is the first stochastic model available in :program:`Smilei`.
It is an extension of the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model with
an additional stochastic operator derived from a Fokker-Planck approach.

* Copy the previous working directory ``Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz`` into a new directory
  called ``Radiation_Niel`` in which we will now work:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp -r Radiation_Landau_Lifshitz Radiation_Niel
    cd Radiation_Niel


* Open the input file ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py`` and
  go to the ``electron`` species block. Modify the ``radiation_model`` by

  .. code-block:: python

    radiation_model = "Niel"


* The Niel radiation model uses tabulated values. External Tables are available
  in the ``SMILEI/databases`` directory in the sources. In order to specify
  in the input file  where these tables are located, we have to modify the
  block ``RadiationReaction`` previously uncommented.
  Uncomment the table_path parameter as follow:

  .. code-block:: python

    RadiationReaction(
         minimum_chi_continuous = 1e-3
    #     minimum_chi_discontinuous = 1e-2,
         table_path = "<path_to_smilei>/databases/"
    )

  And update the path to :program:`Smilei` according to your installation configuration.

* You can run the simulation

  By looking at the standart output (the *log*) that contains the simulation output,
  you can check that the external tables have been well read.

* Use the script ``show_energ_balance.py`` to plot the evolution of the energy
  balance for this simulation. Compare the results to the corrected Landau-Lifshitz model.

* **Optional exercice:** as for the previous model, use the Python scripts to
  plot 2D colormap of the density (``show_2d_density.py``), the normalized kinetic
  energy (``show_2d_average_energy.py``) and the quantum parameter (``show_2d_average_chi.py``).

----

Fourth simulation: the Monte-Carlo model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Monte-Carlo model is the second stochastic one of the list of implemented models.
You can have more information about the model and its implementation on the page
``Synchrotron-like radiation reaction`` fn the :program:`Smilei` website.

* copy the previous working directory ``Radiation_Niel`` into a new directory
  called ``Radiation_Monte-Carlo`` in which we will now work:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp -r Radiation_Niel Radiation_Monte_Carlo
    cd Radiation_Monte_Carlo


* Open the input file ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py`` and
  go to the ``electron`` species block. Modify the ``radiation_model`` by

  .. code-block:: python

    radiation_model = "Monte-Carlo"


* Like the Niel radiation model, the Monte-Carlo algorithm uses tabulated values.
  The same path needs to be specified in the block ``RadiationReaction``.
  In addition, set the parameter ``minimum_chi_discontinuous`` to ``1e-2``
  (uncomment the corresponding line).
  The Monte-Carlo model is built to work with the continuous corrected
  Landau-Lifshitz approach when the particle quantum parameter is too low.
  This parameter corresponds to this threshold.
  Above this value, a particle undergoes radiation reaction via the Monte-Carlo engine.
  Below the continuous approach is used.

  .. code-block:: python

    RadiationReaction(
         minimum_chi_continuous = 1e-3
         minimum_chi_discontinuous = 1e-3,
         table_path = "<path_to_smilei>/databases/"
    )

  In fact, the default value of ``minimum_chi_discontinuous`` is ``1e-2``.
  Therefore, it has to be specified only to change the default value.
  The Monte-Carlo radiation reaction is now fully set.

* You can now run the simulation

* Use the script ``show_energ_balance.py`` to plot the evolution of the energy
  balance for this simulation.

* **Optional exercice:** as for the previous model, use the Python scripts to
  plot 2D colormap of the density (``show_2d_density.py``), the normalized kinetic
  energy (``show_2d_average_energy.py``) and the quantum parameter (``show_2d_average_chi.py``).

----

Comparison of the radiation reaction models
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Optional exercice:** Using ``show_energy_balance.py``, create you own python script
  to plot on the same figure the time evolution of the energy balance
  for the corrected Landau-Lifshitz, the Niel and the Monte-Carlo radiative models.
  The solution is given in the next point.

* **Solution:** The solution is the Python script
  ``Analysis/compare_energy_balance_radiation_models.py``.
  Go to the directory ``Analysis`` to run it.
  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/compare_energy_balance_radiation_models.png

* **Optional exercice:** Using the script ``show_2d_density.py``, create a
  new script to compare on the same figure the electron density of the corrected Landau-Lifshitz,
  the Niel and the Monte-Carlo radiative simulation cases.
  Observe the shape of the beam after the laser interaction in each case.
  Do the same thing for the average local kinetic energy and the
  average local quantum parameter using ``show_2d_kinetic_energy.py`` and ``show_2d_average_chi.py``.
  See the next point for the solution.

* **Solutions:** Solutions are the Python script ``Analysis/compare_2d_density_radiation_models.py``,
  ``Analysis/compare_2d_kinetic_energy_radiation_models.py``,
  ``Analysis/compare_2d_average_chi_radiation_models.py``.
  Go to the directory ``Analysis`` to run the solutions.
  The beam density at iteration 6500 at the end of the interaction should look
  like the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/compare_density_radiative_models.png

  With the script to compare the quantum parameter space-distribution,
  you can also have the maximum value of the quantum parameter.

* **Optional exercice:** Activate the track particle option to follow trajectories
  of some particles in the corrected Landau-Lifshitz,
  the Niel and the Monte-Carlo simulation cases and run them again.
  Create a python script to read and plot the particle trajectories.
  Describe the difference due to the stochasticity.

* **Optional exercice**: Play with the laser and electron beam parameters
  (laser amplitude, duration, profile and electron energy) to see how
  the different models behave. Use the previous scripts to compute the maximum
  value of the quantum parameter in each case and see the electron beam properties after
  the laser interaction.
