advanced_breit_wheeler.rst, before:

Multiphoton Breit-Wheeler pair creation process
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The goal of this tutorial is to present how to use the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler
pair creation process in :program:`Smilei`.
The following points will be addressed:

* How to prepare input files for this physical module
* How to setup macro-photon species and the Monte-Carlo emission
* How to setup the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler pair creation process
* How to use diagnostics
* How to read and understand produced outputs

----

Physical configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A multi-GeV electron beam is made to collide with a counter-propagating plane wave.
This configuration is one of the most efficient to trigger radiative and QED effects.
It maximizes the value of the quantum parameter for a given electron energy and a
given field strength.

The simulation is 2D Cartesian with a simulation size of :math:`30 \lambda \times 4 \lambda`
where :math:`\lambda` is the laser wavelength. The laser is injected from the left side
of the simulation domain while the electron beam is initialized at the extreme right.

In this initial configuration, the laser has a wavelength of :math:`\lambda = 1\ \mu \mathrm{m}`,
an amplitude of :math:`10^{23}\ \mathrm{W/cm}^2` (:math:`a_0 \simeq 270`) and is linearly
polarized in the `y` direction. The temporal profile is Gaussian (order 4).
he full width at half maximum (FWHM) is of 10 laser periods (approximately 33 fs).

The electron beam has an initial energy of 4 GeV and propagates to the left.
The beam density is of :math:`n_b = 10^{-5} n_c`. The electron beam is frozen the
time for the laser to be fully injected and so that the collision occurred at
the middle of the domain. This enables to have a shorter simulation box and
therefore save computational time. The beam is initialized with 32 particles
per cell for a total of 3648 macro-particles.

----

Content of the tutorial
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download `AdvancedPractical2.tar.gz <AdvancedPractical2.tar.gz>`_ and extract it.
It contains 2 directories:

* ``Analysis``
* ``Execution``

The directory ``Analysis`` contains `Python` scripts that will be used to analysis
and visualize the simulation outputs. Each script has been designed to focus on a
specific quantity:

* ``show_energy_balance.py``: display the time evolution of the species kinetic energy,
  the photon species energy and the radiated energy (not in the photons).
* ``show_particle_number.py``: display the time evolution of the number of macro-particles
  for each species.
* ``show_2d_density.py``: display the 2D colormap of the electron, positron and photon density.
* ``show_2d_average_energy.py``: display the 2D colormap of the electron, positron and
  photon average normalized energy.
* ``show_2d_average_chi.py``: display the 2D colormap of the electron, positron and
  photon quantum parameter.
* ``show_2d_fields.py``: display 2D colormaps  of the electric field :math:`E_y`
  and the magnetic field :math:`B_z`.
* ``show_energy_spectrum.py``: display the electron, positron and photon energy
  distribution at a given time.

The ``Execution`` directory contains the input file:

* ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py``

----

Simulation of the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler process
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will first lean how to configure the input file for the Monte-Carlo process
with macro-photon emission followed by the Multiphoton Breit-Wheeler
pair creation process.
For this simulation case, we will need to define three species: electrons, positrons and photons.
After the configuration, we will then run our simulation test case.
Finally, we will see how to read and exploit diagnostic outputs via Python script
and the :program:`happi` post-processing module.

* Make a copy of the directory ``Execution`` and name it
  ``Multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler``. We will perform the simulation in this directory.

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp -r Execution Multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler
    cd Multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler


* Open the input file ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py``.

----

Configuration of the radiation reaction block
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Go to the ``RadiationReaction`` block.

* The Monte-Carlo algorithm uses tabulated values.
  The path needs to be specified in the block ``RadiationReaction`` via the parameter ``table_path``.
  The tables are located in the directory ``databases`` at the root of the :program:`Smilei` repository.
  Uncomment this parameter and update the path to the location of your :program:`Smilei` installation.

* The parameter ``chipa_radiation_threshold`` corresponds to the minimal value
  of the quantum parameter at which the radiation reaction process is applied.
  Below this value, the particle does not undergo radiation reaction.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.
  Specifying this parameter is actually not compulsory since it is defined
  by default at :math:`10^{-3}`.

* Uncomment the line with the parameter ``chipa_disc_min_threshold``.
  The Monte-Carlo model is built to work with
  the continuous corrected Landau-Lifshitz approach when the particle quantum parameter is too low.
  This parameter corresponds to this threshold.
  Above this value, a particle undergoes radiation reaction via the Monte-Carlo engine.
  Below the continuous approach is used.
  This parameter is by default equal to :math:`10^{-2}`
  but it is modified to be :math:`10^{-3}` here.

* The ``RadiationReaction`` should now look like:

  .. code-block:: python

    RadiationReaction(
         chipa_radiation_threshold = 1e-3
         chipa_disc_min_threshold = 1e-3,
         table_path = "<path_to_smilei>/databases/"
    )


----

Configuration of the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler block
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Go to the ``MultiphotonBreitWheeler`` block.
  This block controls the general parameters of the Multiphoton Breit-Wheeler process.

* The Monte-Carlo algorithm for the Multiphoton Breit-Wheeler process uses tabulated values.
  The path needs to be specified in the block ``MultiphotonBreitWheeler`` via the parameter ``table_path``.
  The tables are located in the directory ``databases`` at the root of the :program:`Smilei` repository.
  Uncomment this parameter and update the path to the location of your :program:`Smilei` installation.

* The ``MultiphotonBreitWheeler`` should now look like:

  .. code-block:: python

    MultiphotonBreitWheeler(
         table_path = "<path_to_smilei>/databases/"
    )

----

Configuration of the electron species
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We will first configure the ``electron`` species that composes the beam so that
  it can radiate via the Monte-Carlo model and generate macro-photons
  Go to the ``electron`` species block. you can see that the radiation parameters
  are commented.

* The parameter ``radiation_model`` corresponds to the type of radiation model to be used.
  Uncomment the corresponding line. We use here the ``Monte-Carlo``.

* When ``radiation_photon_species`` is present and not set to ``None``,
  the possibility to generate macro-photons is activated. This parameter has to be set to
  the name of the ``photon`` species that will receive the created macro-photons.
  Uncomment the corresponding line. The photon species is called ``photon``.

* The parameter ``radiation_photon_sampling`` enables to control the number of
  macro-photons generated per emission even. By default, an emission yields a
  single macro-photons of weight similar to the emitting particle. to increase
  the emission statistics, you can decide to increase this number so that several
  macro-photons are generated per even. In this case, the weight is equally
  divided between macro-photons for quantity conservation.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.

* The parameter ``radiation_photon_gamma_threshold`` enables to control the
  minimum threshold on the photon energy that allow macro-photon emission.
  Below the specified value, the radiation reaction is taken into account
  but no macro-photon is created.
  Here, since photons of energy below twice the electron rest mass energy have
  no chance to turn into electron-positron pairs, this threshold is set to 2.
  This value is actually the default one.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.

* The radiation parameters of the ``electron`` species block are now:

  .. code-block:: python

    Species(
        name = "electron",
    ...
        radiation_model = "Monte-Carlo",
        radiation_photon_species = "photon",
        radiation_photon_sampling = 1,
        radiation_photon_gamma_threshold = 2,
    ...
    )


* The electron species is now configured.

----

Configuration of the photon species
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We will then configure the ``photon`` species that will receive the macro-photons
  generated by the other species via the Monte-Carlo radiation model.
  Go to the ``photon`` species block. you can see that the Multiphoton
  Breit-Wheeler parameters are commented. They start by ``multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler``.

* The parameter ``multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler`` is a list of two strings.
  These strings respectively correspond
  to the species name that will receive the created electron and the created positron.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.
  The electron and the positron species respectively correspond to ``electron`` and ``positron``.
  When this parameter is commented, the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler is not activated.

* The parameter ``multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler_sampling`` is the number of
  macro-electron and macro-positron generated per Monte-Carlo event.
  This parameter is a list of two integers.
  By default, an electron and a positron are generated per event.
  To improve the statistics, these numbers can be increased.
  The macro-particle weight is then divided in consequence.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.

* The multiphoton Breit-Wheeler parameters for the ``photon`` species block are now:

  .. code-block:: python

    Species(
        name = "photon",
    ...
        multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler = ["electron","positron"],
        multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler_sampling = [1,1],
    ...
    )


----

Configuration of the positron species
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We will then configure the ``positron`` species that will receive the macro-positrons
  generated via the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler.
  Go to the ``positron`` species block.

* As for the ``electron`` species, uncomment the radiation parameters as follow:

  .. code-block:: python

    Species(
        name = "positron",
    ...
        radiation_model = "Monte-Carlo",
        radiation_photon_species = "photon",
        radiation_photon_sampling = 1,
        radiation_photon_gamma_threshold = 2,
    ...
    )


The positrons will also radiate with the Monte-Carlo model.

----

Presentation of the diagnostics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Several diagnostics are defined in the input file.

* Time-evolution of scalar quantities are configured via the ``DiagScalar`` block.
  Here, output of the radiated energy (not including the macro-photons)
  is requested via ``Urad``. ``Ukin_<species>`` corresponds to the kinetic energy of ``<species>``
  (total energy for the photons). ``Ntot_<species>`` is the number of macro-particles.

  .. code-block:: python

    DiagScalar(
        every = 10,
        vars=['Uelm','Ukin','Utot','Uexp','Ubal',
              'Urad',
              'Ukin_electron',
              'Ukin_positron',
              'Ukin_photon',
              'Ntot_electron',
              'Ntot_positron',
              'Ntot_photon']
    )


* The field grids are damped every 500 iterations via the block ``DiagFields``.

* The ``DiagParticleBinning`` blocks enable to project the particle
  quantities on specified multidimensional grids.
  There are 4 types of diagnostics configured in the input file for each species:

  - 1. the species `weight` distribution
  - 2. the kinetic energy times the weight (``weight_ekin``)
  - 3. the quantum parameter time the weight (``weight_chi``)
  - 4. the species energy distribution

  The particle binning diagnostics are damped every 500 iterations.

----

Simulation analysis
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After you have run the simulation, you may start analyzing its results.

* Let us first analyze the time-evolution of the number of macro-particles
  in the simulation.
  Copy the file ``Analysis/show_particle_number.py`` in the working directory:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_particle_number.py .


  Run the script using iPython:

  .. code-block:: bash

    ipython
    run show_particle_number.py


* You should obtain the following graph:

  .. image:: _extra/particle_number.png

  When the laser starts to interact with the electron beam around :math:`t = 230 \omega_r^{-1}`,
  the number of macro-photons rises rapidly due thanks to
  the Monte-Carlo radiation model.
  Later, these photons start to decay into electron-positron pairs
  via the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler.
  We can observe an increase of the number of macro-electrons and macro-positrons
  from :math:`t = 235 \omega_r^{-1}`

* Copy the file ``Analysis/show_energy_balance.py`` in the working directory
  and run the script:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_energy_balance.py .
    ipython
    run show_energy_balance.py


* You should obtain the following graph:

  .. image:: _extra/energy_balance.png

* We will now use the particle binning diagnostics.
  Copy the file ``Analysis/show_2d_average_energy.py`` in the working directory
  and run the script:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_2d_average_energy.py .
    ipython
    run show_2d_average_energy.py


  You should obtain the following graph:

  .. image:: _extra/2d_average_energy_it5500.png

  From the top to the bottom, you have respectively the electron, positron
  normalized kinetic energy and the photon normalized energy.

* Open the script ``show_2d_average_energy.py``. In the section `Parameters`,
  you can play with the parameter ``timestep`` that plot the species average energy
  at different iteration. Rerun the script at different timesteps.

  .. code-block:: python

    # ______________________________________________________________________________
    # Parameters

    # Path to the simulation directory
    path = "./"

    # Time step for the diagnotics
    timestep = 5500


  Observe the evolution of the different species energy all along the simulation.

* We will now do the same thing for the weight (normalized local density).
  Copy the file ``Analysis/show_2d_density.py`` in the working directory
  and run the script:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_2d_density.py .
    ipython
    run show_2d_density.py


  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/2d_density_it5500.png

  Change the ``timestep`` parameter to see how the beam shape evolves during
  the simulation and how the positron are created.

* We can also look at the quantum parameter.
  Copy the file ``Analysis/show_2d_average_chi.py`` in the working directory
  and run the script:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_2d_average_chi.py .
    ipython
    run show_2d_average_chi.py


  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/2d_average_chi_it5500.png

  The maximal value of the quantum parameter is printed in the terminal.
  Change the ``timestep`` parameter to see how the electron, positron and photon
  average quantum parameter evolve during
  the simulation.

* To get an idea of where in the laser field the beam is located,
  you can use the script ``Analysis/show_2d_fields.py``
  Copy and run it:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_2d_fields.py .
    ipython
    run show_2d_fields.py


  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/2d_fields_it5500.png

  Change the ``timestep`` parameter as for the particle binning diagnostics.

* Finally, we want to analysis the final energy spectra of the species.
  For this aim, copy the script ``Analysis/show_energy_spectrum.py`` and run it.

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_energy_spectrum.py .
    ipython
    run show_energy_spectrum


  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/energy_spectrum_it8000.png


----

To go beyond
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Optional exercice:** Change the laser and electron beam properties to see
  how it affects the beam energy loss and the production of electron-positron pairs.

* **Optional exercice:** Use the same input file to build a similar case in 3D.
  You will have to increase the number of nodes.
  Use a focused laser pulse instead a place wave and see how the pulse waist
  affect the interaction (final positron energy, beam divergence...).

* **Optional exercice:** Activate the load balancing and change the number of
  patches to see how it affects the performances.

Commit message:

Update radiation and multi-photon hands-on with new radiation parameters names

advanced_breit_wheeler.rst, after:

Multiphoton Breit-Wheeler pair creation process
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The goal of this tutorial is to present how to use the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler
pair creation process in :program:`Smilei`.
The following points will be addressed:

* How to prepare input files for this physical module
* How to setup macro-photon species and the Monte-Carlo emission
* How to setup the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler pair creation process
* How to use diagnostics
* How to read and understand produced outputs

----

Physical configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A multi-GeV electron beam is made to collide with a counter-propagating plane wave.
This configuration is one of the most efficient to trigger radiative and QED effects.
It maximizes the value of the quantum parameter for a given electron energy and a
given field strength.

The simulation is 2D Cartesian with a simulation size of :math:`30 \lambda \times 4 \lambda`
where :math:`\lambda` is the laser wavelength. The laser is injected from the left side
of the simulation domain while the electron beam is initialized at the extreme right.

In this initial configuration, the laser has a wavelength of :math:`\lambda = 1\ \mu \mathrm{m}`,
an amplitude of :math:`10^{23}\ \mathrm{W/cm}^2` (:math:`a_0 \simeq 270`) and is linearly
polarized in the `y` direction. The temporal profile is Gaussian (order 4).
he full width at half maximum (FWHM) is of 10 laser periods (approximately 33 fs).

The electron beam has an initial energy of 4 GeV and propagates to the left.
The beam density is of :math:`n_b = 10^{-5} n_c`. The electron beam is frozen the
time for the laser to be fully injected and so that the collision occurred at
the middle of the domain. This enables to have a shorter simulation box and
therefore save computational time. The beam is initialized with 32 particles
per cell for a total of 3648 macro-particles.

----

Content of the tutorial
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download `AdvancedPractical2.tar.gz <AdvancedPractical2.tar.gz>`_ and extract it.
It contains 2 directories:

* ``Analysis``
* ``Execution``

The directory ``Analysis`` contains `Python` scripts that will be used to analysis
and visualize the simulation outputs. Each script has been designed to focus on a
specific quantity:

* ``show_energy_balance.py``: display the time evolution of the species kinetic energy,
  the photon species energy and the radiated energy (not in the photons).
* ``show_particle_number.py``: display the time evolution of the number of macro-particles
  for each species.
* ``show_2d_density.py``: display the 2D colormap of the electron, positron and photon density.
* ``show_2d_average_energy.py``: display the 2D colormap of the electron, positron and
  photon average normalized energy.
* ``show_2d_average_chi.py``: display the 2D colormap of the electron, positron and
  photon quantum parameter.
* ``show_2d_fields.py``: display 2D colormaps  of the electric field :math:`E_y`
  and the magnetic field :math:`B_z`.
* ``show_energy_spectrum.py``: display the electron, positron and photon energy
  distribution at a given time.

The ``Execution`` directory contains the input file:

* ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py``

----

Simulation of the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler process
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will first lean how to configure the input file for the Monte-Carlo process
with macro-photon emission followed by the Multiphoton Breit-Wheeler
pair creation process.
For this simulation case, we will need to define three species: electrons, positrons and photons.
After the configuration, we will then run our simulation test case.
Finally, we will see how to read and exploit diagnostic outputs via Python script
and the :program:`happi` post-processing module.

* Make a copy of the directory ``Execution`` and name it
  ``Multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler``. We will perform the simulation in this directory.

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp -r Execution Multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler
    cd Multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler


* Open the input file ``tst2d_electron_laser_collision.py``.

----

Configuration of the radiation reaction block
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Go to the ``RadiationReaction`` block.

* The Monte-Carlo algorithm uses tabulated values.
  The path needs to be specified in the block ``RadiationReaction`` via the parameter ``table_path``.
  The tables are located in the directory ``databases`` at the root of the :program:`Smilei` repository.
  Uncomment this parameter and update the path to the location of your :program:`Smilei` installation.

* The parameter ``minimum_chi_continuous`` corresponds to the minimal value
  of the quantum parameter at which the radiation reaction process is applied.
  Below this value, the particle does not undergo radiation reaction.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.
  Specifying this parameter is actually not compulsory since it is defined
  by default at :math:`10^{-3}`.

* Uncomment the line with the parameter ``minimum_chi_discontinuous``.
  The Monte-Carlo model is built to work with
  the continuous corrected Landau-Lifshitz approach when the particle quantum parameter is too low.
  This parameter corresponds to this threshold.
  Above this value, a particle undergoes radiation reaction via the Monte-Carlo engine.
  Below the continuous approach is used.
  This parameter is by default equal to :math:`10^{-2}`
  but it is modified to be :math:`10^{-3}` here.

* The ``RadiationReaction`` should now look like:

  .. code-block:: python

    RadiationReaction(
         minimum_chi_continuous = 1e-3
         minimum_chi_discontinuous = 1e-3,
         table_path = "<path_to_smilei>/databases/"
    )


----

Configuration of the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler block
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Go to the ``MultiphotonBreitWheeler`` block.
  This block controls the general parameters of the Multiphoton Breit-Wheeler process.

* The Monte-Carlo algorithm for the Multiphoton Breit-Wheeler process uses tabulated values.
  The path needs to be specified in the block ``MultiphotonBreitWheeler`` via the parameter ``table_path``.
  The tables are located in the directory ``databases`` at the root of the :program:`Smilei` repository.
  Uncomment this parameter and update the path to the location of your :program:`Smilei` installation.

* The ``MultiphotonBreitWheeler`` should now look like:

  .. code-block:: python

    MultiphotonBreitWheeler(
         table_path = "<path_to_smilei>/databases/"
    )

----

Configuration of the electron species
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We will first configure the ``electron`` species that composes the beam so that
  it can radiate via the Monte-Carlo model and generate macro-photons
  Go to the ``electron`` species block. you can see that the radiation parameters
  are commented.

* The parameter ``radiation_model`` corresponds to the type of radiation model to be used.
  Uncomment the corresponding line. We use here the ``Monte-Carlo``.

* When ``radiation_photon_species`` is present and not set to ``None``,
  the possibility to generate macro-photons is activated. This parameter has to be set to
  the name of the ``photon`` species that will receive the created macro-photons.
  Uncomment the corresponding line. The photon species is called ``photon``.

* The parameter ``radiation_photon_sampling`` enables to control the number of
  macro-photons generated per emission even. By default, an emission yields a
  single macro-photons of weight similar to the emitting particle. to increase
  the emission statistics, you can decide to increase this number so that several
  macro-photons are generated per even. In this case, the weight is equally
  divided between macro-photons for quantity conservation.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.

* The parameter ``radiation_photon_gamma_threshold`` enables to control the
  minimum threshold on the photon energy that allow macro-photon emission.
  Below the specified value, the radiation reaction is taken into account
  but no macro-photon is created.
  Here, since photons of energy below twice the electron rest mass energy have
  no chance to turn into electron-positron pairs, this threshold is set to 2.
  This value is actually the default one.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.

* The radiation parameters of the ``electron`` species block are now:

  .. code-block:: python

    Species(
        name = "electron",
    ...
        radiation_model = "Monte-Carlo",
        radiation_photon_species = "photon",
        radiation_photon_sampling = 1,
        radiation_photon_gamma_threshold = 2,
    ...
    )


* The electron species is now configured.

----

Configuration of the photon species
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We will then configure the ``photon`` species that will receive the macro-photons
  generated by the other species via the Monte-Carlo radiation model.
  Go to the ``photon`` species block. you can see that the Multiphoton
  Breit-Wheeler parameters are commented. They start by ``multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler``.

* The parameter ``multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler`` is a list of two strings.
  These strings respectively correspond
  to the species name that will receive the created electron and the created positron.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.
  The electron and the positron species respectively correspond to ``electron`` and ``positron``.
  When this parameter is commented, the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler is not activated.

* The parameter ``multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler_sampling`` is the number of
  macro-electron and macro-positron generated per Monte-Carlo event.
  This parameter is a list of two integers.
  By default, an electron and a positron are generated per event.
  To improve the statistics, these numbers can be increased.
  The macro-particle weight is then divided in consequence.
  Uncomment the corresponding line.

* The multiphoton Breit-Wheeler parameters for the ``photon`` species block are now:

  .. code-block:: python

    Species(
        name = "photon",
    ...
        multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler = ["electron","positron"],
        multiphoton_Breit_Wheeler_sampling = [1,1],
    ...
    )


----

Configuration of the positron species
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* We will then configure the ``positron`` species that will receive the macro-positrons
  generated via the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler.
  Go to the ``positron`` species block.

* As for the ``electron`` species, uncomment the radiation parameters as follow:

  .. code-block:: python

    Species(
        name = "positron",
    ...
        radiation_model = "Monte-Carlo",
        radiation_photon_species = "photon",
        radiation_photon_sampling = 1,
        radiation_photon_gamma_threshold = 2,
    ...
    )


The positrons will also radiate with the Monte-Carlo model.

----

Presentation of the diagnostics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Several diagnostics are defined in the input file.

* Time-evolution of scalar quantities are configured via the ``DiagScalar`` block.
  Here, output of the radiated energy (not including the macro-photons)
  is requested via ``Urad``. ``Ukin_<species>`` corresponds to the kinetic energy of ``<species>``
  (total energy for the photons). ``Ntot_<species>`` is the number of macro-particles.

  .. code-block:: python

    DiagScalar(
        every = 10,
        vars=['Uelm','Ukin','Utot','Uexp','Ubal',
              'Urad',
              'Ukin_electron',
              'Ukin_positron',
              'Ukin_photon',
              'Ntot_electron',
              'Ntot_positron',
              'Ntot_photon']
    )


* The field grids are damped every 500 iterations via the block ``DiagFields``.

* The ``DiagParticleBinning`` blocks enable to project the particle
  quantities on specified multidimensional grids.
  There are 4 types of diagnostics configured in the input file for each species:

  - 1. the species `weight` distribution
  - 2. the kinetic energy times the weight (``weight_ekin``)
  - 3. the quantum parameter time the weight (``weight_chi``)
  - 4. the species energy distribution

  The particle binning diagnostics are damped every 500 iterations.

----

Simulation analysis
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After you have run the simulation, you may start analyzing its results.

* Let us first analyze the time-evolution of the number of macro-particles
  in the simulation.
  Copy the file ``Analysis/show_particle_number.py`` in the working directory:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_particle_number.py .


  Run the script using iPython:

  .. code-block:: bash

    ipython
    run show_particle_number.py


* You should obtain the following graph:

  .. image:: _extra/particle_number.png

  When the laser starts to interact with the electron beam around :math:`t = 230 \omega_r^{-1}`,
  the number of macro-photons rises rapidly due thanks to
  the Monte-Carlo radiation model.
  Later, these photons start to decay into electron-positron pairs
  via the multiphoton Breit-Wheeler.
  We can observe an increase of the number of macro-electrons and macro-positrons
  from :math:`t = 235 \omega_r^{-1}`

* Copy the file ``Analysis/show_energy_balance.py`` in the working directory
  and run the script:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_energy_balance.py .
    ipython
    run show_energy_balance.py


* You should obtain the following graph:

  .. image:: _extra/energy_balance.png

* We will now use the particle binning diagnostics.
  Copy the file ``Analysis/show_2d_average_energy.py`` in the working directory
  and run the script:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_2d_average_energy.py .
    ipython
    run show_2d_average_energy.py


  You should obtain the following graph:

  .. image:: _extra/2d_average_energy_it5500.png

  From the top to the bottom, you have respectively the electron, positron
  normalized kinetic energy and the photon normalized energy.

* Open the script ``show_2d_average_energy.py``. In the section `Parameters`,
  you can play with the parameter ``timestep`` that plot the species average energy
  at different iteration. Rerun the script at different timesteps.

  .. code-block:: python

    # ______________________________________________________________________________
    # Parameters

    # Path to the simulation directory
    path = "./"

    # Time step for the diagnotics
    timestep = 5500


  Observe the evolution of the different species energy all along the simulation.

* We will now do the same thing for the weight (normalized local density).
  Copy the file ``Analysis/show_2d_density.py`` in the working directory
  and run the script:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_2d_density.py .
    ipython
    run show_2d_density.py


  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/2d_density_it5500.png

  Change the ``timestep`` parameter to see how the beam shape evolves during
  the simulation and how the positron are created.

* We can also look at the quantum parameter.
  Copy the file ``Analysis/show_2d_average_chi.py`` in the working directory
  and run the script:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_2d_average_chi.py .
    ipython
    run show_2d_average_chi.py


  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/2d_average_chi_it5500.png

  The maximal value of the quantum parameter is printed in the terminal.
  Change the ``timestep`` parameter to see how the electron, positron and photon
  average quantum parameter evolve during
  the simulation.

* To get an idea of where in the laser field the beam is located,
  you can use the script ``Analysis/show_2d_fields.py``
  Copy and run it:

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_2d_fields.py .
    ipython
    run show_2d_fields.py


  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/2d_fields_it5500.png

  Change the ``timestep`` parameter as for the particle binning diagnostics.

* Finally, we want to analysis the final energy spectra of the species.
  For this aim, copy the script ``Analysis/show_energy_spectrum.py`` and run it.

  .. code-block:: bash

    cp ../Analysis/show_energy_spectrum.py .
    ipython
    run show_energy_spectrum


  You should obtain the following figure:

  .. image:: _extra/energy_spectrum_it8000.png


----

To go beyond
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* **Optional exercice:** Change the laser and electron beam properties to see
  how it affects the beam energy loss and the production of electron-positron pairs.

* **Optional exercice:** Use the same input file to build a similar case in 3D.
  You will have to increase the number of nodes.
  Use a focused laser pulse instead a place wave and see how the pulse waist
  affect the interaction (final positron energy, beam divergence...).

* **Optional exercice:** Activate the load balancing and change the number of
  patches to see how it affects the performances.
